Privacy policy
Responsible person in terms of data protection laws, in particular the EU General Data Protection Regulation (DSGVO), is:
Thomas Raffelsieper
Flachsbeckweg 5
45659 Recklinghausen

Your data subject rights
You can exercise the following rights at any time using the contact details provided by our data protection officer:

Information about your data stored by us and its processing (Art. 15 DSGVO),
Correction of incorrect personal data (Art. 16 DSGVO),
Deletion of your data stored by us (Art. 17 DSGVO),
Restriction of data processing if we are not yet allowed to delete your data due to legal obligations (Art. 18 DSGVO),
objection to the processing of your data by us (Art. 21 DSGVO) and
Data portability, provided that you have consented to the data processing or have concluded a contract with us (Art. 20 DSGVO).


If you have given us consent, you can revoke this at any time with effect for the future.
You may at any time lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, e.g. the competent supervisory authority in the federal state of your residence or the authority responsible for us as the responsible body.
A list of supervisory authorities (for the non-public sector) with address can be found at: https://www.bfdi.bund.de/DE/Service/Anschriften/Laender/Laender-node.html.
Comment function
Nature and purpose of processing:
When users leave comments on our website, in addition to these details, the time of their creation and the user name previously selected by the website visitor are also stored. This is for our security, as we can be prosecuted for unlawful content on our website, even if it was created by users.
Legal basis:
The processing of data entered as comments is based on a legitimate interest (Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f DSGVO).
By providing the comment function, we would like to enable you to interact in an uncomplicated manner. The information you provide will be stored for the purpose of processing the request and for possible follow-up questions.
Recipients:
Recipients of the data are, if applicable, order processors.
Third country transfer:
The collected data may be transferred to the following third countries: 
USA, rest of the world
The following data protection guarantees are in place: 
EU Commission adequacy decision
Storage period:
The data is deleted as soon as it is no longer required for the purpose of collection. This is generally the case when the communication with the user has been completed and the company can infer from the circumstances that the matter in question has been conclusively clarified. We reserve the right to delete without giving reasons and without prior or subsequent information.
You can also have your comment deleted by us at any time. To do so, please write an e-mail to the data protection officer listed below or the person responsible for data protection and submit the link to your comment as well as, for identification purposes, the e-mail address used when creating the comment.
Provision mandatory or required:
The provision of your personal data is voluntary. Without the provision of your personal data, we cannot grant you access to our comment function.
Embedded YouTube videos
We embed YouTube videos on our website. The operator of the corresponding plugins is YouTube, LLC, 901 Cherry Ave, San Bruno, CA 94066, USA (hereinafter "YouTube"). YouTube, LLC is a subsidiary of Google LLC, 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA (hereinafter "Google"). When you visit a page with the YouTube plugin, a connection to YouTube servers is established. In the process, YouTube is informed which pages you are visiting. If you are logged into your YouTube account, YouTube can assign your surfing behavior to you personally. You can prevent this by logging out of your YouTube account beforehand. 
If a YouTube video is started, the provider uses cookies that collect information about user behavior. 
For more information on the purpose and scope of data collection and processing by YouTube, please refer to the provider's privacy policy, where you will also find further information on your rights in this regard and settings options for protecting your privacy (https://policies.google.com/privacy). 
Withdrawal of consent:
No option for a simple opt-out or blocking of data transmission is currently offered by the provider. If you wish to prevent tracking of your activities on our website, please revoke your consent for the relevant cookie category or all technically unnecessary cookies and data transfers in the cookie consent tool. In this case, however, you may not be able to use our website, or only to a limited extent.
SSL encryption
To protect the security of your data during transmission, we use state-of-the-art encryption methods (e.g. SSL) via HTTPS.


Information about your right to object according to Art. 21 DSGVO
Individual right of objection
You have the right to object at any time, on grounds relating to your particular situation, to the processing of personal data relating to you which is carried out on the basis of Art. 6(1)(f) DSGVO (data processing on the basis of a balance of interests); this also applies to profiling based on this provision within the meaning of Art. 4 No. 4 DSGVO.
If you object, we will no longer process your personal data unless we can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for the processing which override your interests, rights and freedoms, or the processing serves the purpose of asserting, exercising or defending legal claims.
Recipient of an objection
Thomas Raffelsieper
Flachsbeckweg 5
45659 Recklinghausen



Changes to our privacy policy
We reserve the right to adapt this data protection declaration so that it always complies with the current legal requirements or in order to implement changes to our services in the data protection declaration, e.g. when introducing new services. The new data protection statement will then apply to your next visit.
Questions for the data protection officer
If you have any questions about data protection, please write us an e-mail or contact the person responsible for data protection in our organization directly:
Thomas Raffelsieper
Flachsbeckweg 5
45659 Recklinghausen
The privacy policy was created with the help of activeMind AG, the experts for external data protection officers (version #2020-09-30).